Publications
============

1. Filipp, Andreas and Nguyen, Tri and Perreault-Levasseur, Laurence and Rose, Jonah and Lovell, Chris and Payot, Nicolas and Villaescusa-Navarro, Francisco and Hezaveh, Yashar (2025). *Predicting the Subhalo Mass Functions in Simulations from Galaxy Images*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2510.14766.
2. Harvey, Thomas and Conselice, Christopher J. and Adams, Nathan J. and Austin, Duncan and Li, Qiong and Rusakov, Vadim and Westcott, Lewi and Goolsby, Caio M. and Lovell, Christopher C. and Cochrane, Rachel K. and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Trussler, James (2025). *Behind the spotlight: a systematic assessment of outshining using NIRCam medium bands in the JADES Origins Field*. \mnras, **542**(4), 2998-3027.
3. Ho, Matthew and Bartlett, Deaglan J. and Chartier, Nicolas and Cuesta-Lazaro, Carolina and Ding, Simon and Lapel, Axel and Lemos, Pablo and Lovell, Christopher C. and Makinen, T. Lucas and Modi, Chirag and Pandya, Viraj and Pandey, Shivam and Perez, Lucia A. and Wandelt, Benjamin and Bryan, Greg L. (2024). *LtU-ILI: An All-in-One Framework for Implicit Inference in Astrophysics and Cosmology*. The Open Journal of Astrophysics, **7**, 54.
4. Jeon, Junehyoung and Liu, Boyuan and Bromm, Volker and Fujimoto, Seiji and Taylor, Anthony J. and Kokorev, Vasily and Larson, Rebecca L. and Chisholm, John and Finkelstein, Steven L. and Kocevski, Dale D. (2025). *Little Red Dots and their Progenitors from Direct Collapse Black Holes*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2508.14155.
5. Lovell, Christopher C. and Roper, Will and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Seeyave, Louise and Irodotou, Dimitrios and Wilkins, Stephen M. and Conselice, Christopher J. and Fortuni, Flaminia and Kuusisto, Jussi K. and Merlin, Emiliano and Santini, Paola and Thomas, Peter (2023). *First light and reionisation epoch simulations (FLARES) - VIII. The emergence of passive galaxies at z \ensuremath≥ 5*. \mnras, **525**(4), 5520-5539.
6. Lovell, Christopher C. and Roper, William J. and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Wilkins, Stephen M. and Newman, Sophie and Seeyave, Louise (2025). *Synthesizer: a Software Package for Synthetic Astronomical Observables*. The Open Journal of Astrophysics, **8**, 152.
7. Lovell, Christopher C. and Starkenburg, Tjitske and Ho, Matthew and Anglés-Alcázar, Daniel and Davé, Romeel and Gabrielpillai, Austen and Iyer, Kartheik and Matthews, Alice E. and Roper, William J. and Somerville, Rachel and Sommovigo, Laura and Villaescusa-Navarro, Francisco (2024). *Learning the Universe: Cosmological and Astrophysical Parameter Inference with Galaxy Luminosity Functions and Colours*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2411.13960.
8. Newman, Sophie L. and Lovell, Christopher C. and Maraston, Claudia and Giavalisco, Mauro and Roper, William J. and Saxena, Aayush and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Wilkins, Stephen M. (2025). *Cloudy-Maraston: Integrating nebular continuum and line emission with the Maraston stellar population synthesis models*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2501.03133.
9. Quadri, Giada and Trinca, Alessandro and Lupi, Alessandro and Colpi, Monica and Volonteri, Marta (2025). *Super-Eddington accretion in high-redshift quasar hosts: black-hole driven outflows, galaxy quenching, and the nature of Little Red Dots*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2505.05556.
10. Rawlings, Alexander and Johansson, Peter H. and Naab, Thorsten and Rantala, Antti and Thomas, Jens and Neureiter, Bianca (2025). *Caught in the Act: Detections of Recoiling Supermassive Black Holes from Simulations*. \apj, **991**(1), 83.
11. Roper, Will J. and Lovell, Christopher and Vijayan, Aswin and Wilkins, Stephen and Akins, Hollis and Berger, Sabrina and Sant Fournier, Connor and Harvey, Thomas and Iyer, Kartheik and Leonardi, Marco and Newman, Sophie and Pautasso, Borja and Perry, Ashley and Seeyave, Louise and Sommovigo, Laura (2025). *Synthesizer: Synthetic Observables For Modern Astronomy*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2506.15811.
12. Turner, Jack C. and Roper, Will J. and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Newman, Sophie L. and Wilkins, Stephen M. and Lovell, Christopher C. and Liao, Shihong and Seeyave, Louise T.~C. (2025). *The Nature of High-Redshift Massive Quiescent Galaxies -- Searching for RUBIES-UDS-QG-z7 in FLARES*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2509.16111.
13. Varadaraj, R.~G. and Bowler, R.~A.~A. and Jarvis, M.~J. and Adams, N.~J. and Choustikov, N. and Koekemoer, A.~M. and Carnall, A.~C. and McLeod, D.~J. and Dunlop, J.~S. and Donnan, C.~T. and Grogin, N.~A. (2024). *The sizes of bright Lyman-break galaxies at z ≃ 3-5 with JWST PRIMER*. \mnras, **533**(3), 3724-3741.
14. Vijayan, Aswin P. and Yates, Robert M. and Lovell, Christopher C. and Roper, William J. and Wilkins, Stephen M. and Algera, Hiddo S.~B. and Liao, Shihong and Punyasheel, Paurush and Rowland, Lucie E. and Seeyave, Louise T.~C. (2025). *Interpreting nebular emission lines in the high-redshift Universe*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2507.20190.
15. Wilkins, Stephen M. and Lovell, Christopher C. and Irodotou, Dimitrios and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Vikaeus, Anton and Zackrisson, Erik and Caruana, Joseph and Stanway, Elizabeth R. and Conselice, Christopher J. and Seeyave, Louise T.~C. and Roper, William J. and Chworowsky, Katherine and Finkelstein, Steven L. (2024). *First Light and Reionization Epoch Simulations (FLARES) - XIV. The Balmer/4000 ̊A breaks of distant galaxies*. \mnras, **527**(3), 7965-7973.
16. Wilkins, Stephen M. and Vijayan, Aswin P. and Hagen, Scott and Caruana, Joseph and Conselice, Christopher J. and Done, Chris and Hirschmann, Michaela and Irodotou, Dimitrios and Lovell, Christopher C. and Matthee, Jorryt and Plat, Adèle and Roper, William J. and Taylor, Anthony J. (2025). *First Light and Reionization Epoch Simulations (FLARES) -- XVIII: the ionising emissivities and hydrogen recombination line properties of early AGN*. arXiv e-prints, arXiv:2505.05257.
